docs/examples.md, before:

# Examples

## Run as a validator on pull requests

If you do not pass any inputs, it by default builds a ReSpec or Bikeshed document (`index.html` or `index.bs`) and validates the output. It does not deploy the built document anywhere.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build and Validate
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
```

### Selectively enable/disable validators

By default, both markup and Web IDL validators are enabled.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build and Validate
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          VALIDATE_WEBIDL: false
          VALIDATE_MARKUP: true
```

## Specify toolchain: Bikeshed or ReSpec

Specify `TOOLCHAIN` if the action cannot figure out the toolchain itself, or if you like to be explicit.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build and Validate
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          TOOLCHAIN: respec # or bikeshed
```

## Deploy to GitHub pages

Deployment is only done on `push` events. In this example:

- the document is built and validated as a check in the pull request.
- the document is built and validated, and then deployed to `gh-pages` branch, when a commit is pushed to the `main` branch.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
```

### Change output location for built files

By default, output location is mapped to the `SOURCE`. You can change that by providing a [`DESTINATION`](options.md#destination).

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Deploy to GitHub pages
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
          TOOLCHAIN: bikeshed
          SOURCE: src/spec.bs
          DESTINATION: specification/index.html # `src/spec.html` if not provided.
          # Deployment will be available at: https://<org>.github.io/<repo>/specification/
```

## Deploy to W3C using Echidna

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN }}
          # Replace following with appropriate value. See options.md for details.
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-group/2014JulSep/1234.html
```

### Use different `respecConfig` when deploying to W3C

```yaml
# Example: Override respecConfig for W3C deployment and validators.
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          TOOLCHAIN: respec
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN }}
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: https://WG_DECISION_URL_FOR_MY_SPEC.com
          # Publish to w3.org/TR as a Working Draft (WD) under a different shortName.
          W3C_BUILD_OVERRIDE: |
            specStatus: WD
            shortName: my-custom-shortname
```

See [`W3C_BUILD_OVERRIDE`](options.md#w3c_build_override) and [`GH_PAGES_BUILD_OVERRIDE`](options.md#gh_pages_build_override) for details.

## Multiple specs in same repository

If you maintain multiple documents in the same repository, you can provide source-destination pairs to build, validate and deploy each one separately.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    permissions:
      contents: write
    strategy:
      max-parallel: 1
      matrix:
        include:
          - source: spec.html
            destination: index.html
            echidna_token: ECHIDNA_TOKEN_SPEC
          - source: spec-1
            destination: the-spec
            echidna_token: ECHIDNA_TOKEN_SPEC1
          - source: spec-2
            # destination defaults to spec-2/index.html
            # echidna_token defaults to no publication to w3.org/TR
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          SOURCE: ${{ matrix.source }}
          DESTINATION: ${{ matrix.destination }}
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets[matrix.echidna_token] }}
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: "https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/xyz.html"
```

**Note:** Echidna tokens need to be specified per document but secrets cannot be directly evaluated at the `matrix` level, meaning that `${{\ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN_SPEC }}` cannot be evaluated at that level. As in the above example, the idea is rather to name the token secret at the `matrix` level (through `echidna_token: ECHIDNA_TOKEN_SPEC`) and to evaluate the secret in the job's `steps` (through `${{\ secrets[matrix.echidna_token] }}`).

**Note:** Add the `max-parallel: 1` setting as in the example if you run into situations where jobs attempt to push updates to the repository at the same time and fail (see [#58](https://github.com/w3c/spec-prod/issues/58)). This setting makes GitHub run jobs sequentially.

**Note:** At present, each source might create its own commit in `GH_PAGES_BRANCH` even when content of other sources hasn't changed. This is because the build output for each source contains build date. Though, if you deploy multiple times in the same day, the noise will reduce effectively as the build date (hence the diff) hasn't changed. The situation will improve when [#8](https://github.com/w3c/spec-prod/issues/8) and [#14](https://github.com/w3c/spec-prod/issues/14) are fixed.

As a <em title="a cumbersome one!">workaround</em>, you can create separate workflows for each document and use GitHub Actions' [`on.<push|pull_request>.paths`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#onpushpull_requestpaths) as:

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish-spec-1.yml
name: CI (spec-1)
on:
  pull_request:
    paths: ["spec-1/**"]
  push:
    branches: [main]
    paths: ["spec-1/**"]

jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          SOURCE: spec-1
          DESTINATION: the-spec
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN }}
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: "https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/xyz.html"

# Create another file called .github/workflows/auto-publish-spec-2.yml
name: CI (spec-2)
on:
  pull_request:
    paths: ["spec-2/**"]
  push:
    branches: [main]
    paths: ["spec-2/**"]

jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-20.04
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          SOURCE: spec-2/spec.bs
          DESTINATION: spec-2/index.html
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN }}
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: "https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/xyz.html"
```

Commit message:

docs: recommend running on ubuntu-latest (#193)

docs/examples.md, after:

# Examples

## Run as a validator on pull requests

If you do not pass any inputs, it by default builds a ReSpec or Bikeshed document (`index.html` or `index.bs`) and validates the output. It does not deploy the built document anywhere.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build and Validate
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
```

### Selectively enable/disable validators

By default, both markup and Web IDL validators are enabled.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build and Validate
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          VALIDATE_WEBIDL: false
          VALIDATE_MARKUP: true
```

## Specify toolchain: Bikeshed or ReSpec

Specify `TOOLCHAIN` if the action cannot figure out the toolchain itself, or if you like to be explicit.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build and Validate
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          TOOLCHAIN: respec # or bikeshed
```

## Deploy to GitHub pages

Deployment is only done on `push` events. In this example:

- the document is built and validated as a check in the pull request.
- the document is built and validated, and then deployed to `gh-pages` branch, when a commit is pushed to the `main` branch.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
```

### Change output location for built files

By default, output location is mapped to the `SOURCE`. You can change that by providing a [`DESTINATION`](options.md#destination).

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Deploy to GitHub pages
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
          TOOLCHAIN: bikeshed
          SOURCE: src/spec.bs
          DESTINATION: specification/index.html # `src/spec.html` if not provided.
          # Deployment will be available at: https://<org>.github.io/<repo>/specification/
```

## Deploy to W3C using Echidna

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN }}
          # Replace following with appropriate value. See options.md for details.
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-group/2014JulSep/1234.html
```

### Use different `respecConfig` when deploying to W3C

```yaml
# Example: Override respecConfig for W3C deployment and validators.
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          TOOLCHAIN: respec
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN }}
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: https://WG_DECISION_URL_FOR_MY_SPEC.com
          # Publish to w3.org/TR as a Working Draft (WD) under a different shortName.
          W3C_BUILD_OVERRIDE: |
            specStatus: WD
            shortName: my-custom-shortname
```

See [`W3C_BUILD_OVERRIDE`](options.md#w3c_build_override) and [`GH_PAGES_BUILD_OVERRIDE`](options.md#gh_pages_build_override) for details.

## Multiple specs in same repository

If you maintain multiple documents in the same repository, you can provide source-destination pairs to build, validate and deploy each one separately.

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish.yml
name: CI
on:
  pull_request: {}
  push:
    branches: [main]
jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    strategy:
      max-parallel: 1
      matrix:
        include:
          - source: spec.html
            destination: index.html
            echidna_token: ECHIDNA_TOKEN_SPEC
          - source: spec-1
            destination: the-spec
            echidna_token: ECHIDNA_TOKEN_SPEC1
          - source: spec-2
            # destination defaults to spec-2/index.html
            # echidna_token defaults to no publication to w3.org/TR
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          SOURCE: ${{ matrix.source }}
          DESTINATION: ${{ matrix.destination }}
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets[matrix.echidna_token] }}
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: "https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/xyz.html"
```

**Note:** Echidna tokens need to be specified per document but secrets cannot be directly evaluated at the `matrix` level, meaning that `${{\ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN_SPEC }}` cannot be evaluated at that level. As in the above example, the idea is rather to name the token secret at the `matrix` level (through `echidna_token: ECHIDNA_TOKEN_SPEC`) and to evaluate the secret in the job's `steps` (through `${{\ secrets[matrix.echidna_token] }}`).

**Note:** Add the `max-parallel: 1` setting as in the example if you run into situations where jobs attempt to push updates to the repository at the same time and fail (see [#58](https://github.com/w3c/spec-prod/issues/58)). This setting makes GitHub run jobs sequentially.

**Note:** At present, each source might create its own commit in `GH_PAGES_BRANCH` even when content of other sources hasn't changed. This is because the build output for each source contains build date. Though, if you deploy multiple times in the same day, the noise will reduce effectively as the build date (hence the diff) hasn't changed. The situation will improve when [#8](https://github.com/w3c/spec-prod/issues/8) and [#14](https://github.com/w3c/spec-prod/issues/14) are fixed.

As a <em title="a cumbersome one!">workaround</em>, you can create separate workflows for each document and use GitHub Actions' [`on.<push|pull_request>.paths`](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflow-syntax-for-github-actions#onpushpull_requestpaths) as:

```yaml
# Create a file called .github/workflows/auto-publish-spec-1.yml
name: CI (spec-1)
on:
  pull_request:
    paths: ["spec-1/**"]
  push:
    branches: [main]
    paths: ["spec-1/**"]

jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          SOURCE: spec-1
          DESTINATION: the-spec
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN }}
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: "https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/xyz.html"

# Create another file called .github/workflows/auto-publish-spec-2.yml
name: CI (spec-2)
on:
  pull_request:
    paths: ["spec-2/**"]
  push:
    branches: [main]
    paths: ["spec-2/**"]

jobs:
  main:
    name: Build, Validate and Deploy
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    permissions:
      contents: write
    steps:
      - uses: actions/checkout@v4
      - uses: w3c/spec-prod@v2
        with:
          SOURCE: spec-2/spec.bs
          DESTINATION: spec-2/index.html
          GH_PAGES_BRANCH: gh-pages
          W3C_ECHIDNA_TOKEN: ${{ secrets.ECHIDNA_TOKEN }}
          W3C_WG_DECISION_URL: "https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/xyz.html"
```
